Today, he is a student studying at Principia College.  Three years ago, he was leaving his home - Ukraine - for Germany, with no idea what the future would hold.

You may have seen Ivan Vashneckno walking around campus, leading Ferguson House in its events, speaking for the CSO at convocation, or building projects with the ACMC.  Holding many leadership positions on campus, Ivan cares about Principia and hopes to see a good future.  Similar to many Principia students, Ivan is an international student with a unique story on how he came to the school.

From  Zaporizhzhia , Ukraine, a city in the Southeastern part of the country, Ivan was in his hometown for the first couple of months of the war, when Zaporizhzhia was experiencing heavy warfare.  The city, the largest in its region, is still experiencing heavy rocket and drone attacks from Russian forces today.

Ivan explained his experience in Ukraine before he left, “I remember, I spent the first four months of the war, still being in my hometown, and like every day, you started by going down to the bomb shelter.”

In 2022, when Ivan was just 17 years old, he and his mother escaped to Germany.

“There was an announcement on Facebook that the Red Cross Organization had buses going from the Southeast part of Ukraine for multiple different towns, because the Southeast is the one that’s closest to the battle lines,” he said, “My family decided it’s a good thing for us to do, so we packed our stuff, we took the bus and we didn’t even know where we were going.”

“At first, when I was leaving, I was hoping all, like, a couple months, and we’ll be back.  A couple of months and everything will go back to the way it was, and I would be able to go home.”

Following his escape from Ukraine, Ivan lived in Stuttgart Germany for five months, “I was still thinking,” he said, “okay, is there a chance for me to apply to university in Ukraine or should I completely forget about it?”

After waiting for months, Ivan decided it was time to try to go to school in the United States.

“I didn’t really have anybody to help me because nobody in my family ever had experience applying internationally.”  Despite his lack of guidance, he furthered his english, traveled to Amsterdam for his American Visa and Munich for his english exam so he could come to the United States.

In the September of 2022, Ivan arrived in the United States and began attending Principia Upper School.  He discovered the school through his older sister, who was already living the US and had a connection with a life long Christian Scientist, who put him in contact with the Upper School.

After graduating high school, Ivan began his college education at Principia College, where he is still attending today.

Described by both students and faculty on campus as “a good leader,” Ivan has taken up many leadership roles in his time at the college.  In his sophomore year, he created the club Applied Computational Modeling Club (ACMC),  which is a STEM based club that focuses on taking problems and finding solutions.  Along with the ACMC, he is the President of the Christian Science Organization (CSO) and President of Ferguson House.  Recently, he just began his campaign to be President of Principia’s Student Body, an elected position, voted by the student body.

Roger Gordan, the Head of Spiritual Life on campus, spoke about Ivan’s dedication to his role as president of the CSO, and his spirituality as well, “He is very organized.  He’s got a lot of good ideas about CSO and spiritual life.”

Eduardo Salazar, “got the lucky habit to be in the same house as him, and now (works) with him as the social head Ferguson House.”

Ivan, Eduardo described, is, “a good guy who gives really clear instruction.  He respects people’s time, so I think he’s really respectful.”

Like many students studying and living in Elsah, Illinois on Principia College campus, Ivan has traveled from a different country to contribute to the school’s legacy.
